---
layout: default
img: lowtech.JPG
category: Intro
title: About The Open Voice Factory
description: |
---

Up to 15 in every 1,000 children have such severe speech-language impairments that they have difficulty making themselves understood, This affects everything from daily activities like playing with other children and taking part in school to talking to a doctor about your symptoms or your family about your hopes.  

Electronic speech aids, which ‘speak’ set words or phrases when a sequence of symbols are pressed, can be life-changing for these children, but current devices are expensive even in economically developed countries. 

The Open Voice Factory is provides free speech aid software by converting communication boards into communication devices.

Anyone can create an aid by editing a PowerPoint communication board template to add their own pages or utterances. When you upload your template to the factory, it will create a working communication aid for you.

The resulting programs run on any platform, from tablets to laptops to phones, without installation or complex setup. 

Everything we make is free.  That’s free as in ‘don’t pay for it’ and free as in speech.  All of our code is freely available on github [here](https://github.com/joereddington/TheOpenVoiceFactory) and anyone can change or repurpose without having to ask us first. We’re supported by the volunteers who write the code, create the templates and help out all over. 

The sections below let you play with our demos, have a go at creating your own, and find out how you can help. 

<a name="Intro"></a>
